Objectives for CIS 228, The Internet

A) Use of HyperText Markup Language (HTML) to specify document structure:

   1) HTML basics: tags and character entities; elements: block and inline elements,
      lists and list items, images, dev and span elements, the Document Object Model (DOM).

   2) Hyperlinks: the a element, href and (img) src attributes, domain names, URL's,
      relative and absolute paths.

   3) HTML attributes, attribute assignment syntax, id and class attributes.

   4) Tables.

   5) Forms.

B) Use of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to specify document presentation:

   6) Foreground/background: color (color notations), background images.
   
   7) Text: font properties, decoration and alignment, line-height.

   8) Element framing: margin, border, and padding properties.

   9) Element positioning: float and clear properties; absolute, fixed, and relative positioning.

  10) The selector calculus: element, id, class, and pseudo-class selectors;
      compond selectors; the decendant-of ( ), child-of (>), and after (+) operators;
      the cascade and specificity.

C) Use of JavaScript (JS) to specify document behavior:

  11) JS basics: values and types, simple variables, assignment statements, 
      conditional statements (if-then-else), repetative statements (while loops).

  12) Associative arrays: key-value pairs, syntax, creation, conventional arrays, for loops.

  13) Functions: declaration, named and anonymous, parameters, the function body,
      the return statement, side-effects; application, argument evaluation, pass-by-value,
      function evaluation, statement and expression contexts; functions as values.

  14) Objects: objects as associative arrays, dot notation, methods, 
      constructors and object creation, inheritance.

  15) Web page integration: events and handlers (e.g., onclick and onload), 
      the document object, its getElementById() and createElement() methods,
      the innerHTML property and appendChild() method of elements, 
      the value property of input elements.
      
